============
OpenKAT 1.10
============

The most visible change is that the user interface got major improvements and
uses the latest version of Manon. There are still some minor issues left that
will be fixed in upcoming releases.

Finding types have been moved from Rocky database to Octopoes/XTDB and types are
an OOI now. Having the findings together with finding types in XTDB means that
we can query, aggregate and/or filter the findings based on findingtypes or
severity in XTDB. By doing those queries completely in XTDB we fixed several
performance issues. Finding types are added by boefjes which will also give more
flexibility adding/changing/updating finding types in the future.

The CVE finding boefje will download the CVE information from
https://cve.openkat.dev/. It is also possible to run your own instance of this
API, see :ref:`CVE API` for more information.

The Python version used in the container images have been updated to 3.11.
Python 3.11 is a lot faster so this should also make OpenKAT faster. Django
version has also been updated to version 4.2.

This release also provides packages for Debian 12 (bookworm). We recommend
everyone to upgrade their machines to Debian 12 because the included Python 3.11
will give a big performance boost. Debian 11 packages will still be provided
until December 2023 as described in :ref:`Supported distributions`.

New Features
============

 * Two factor auth can be disabled. We recommend that this only be used for
   development/test installations or when external authentication is in use.
 * External authentication support using Django's standard middleware that uses
   REMOTE_USER. See :ref:`External Authentication` how to configure this.
 * The used signing provider is stored alongside rawfiles to make it possible to
   switch providers and still check older rawfiles.
 * The task list has better filters.
 * Environment variables for boefjes aren't tutomatically inherited from the
   runner process anymore and need to be set explicitly.

Bug fixes
=========

 * Sleeping is only done when all queues are empty. This makes it possible to
   increase the boefjes/normalizer poll interval without a decrease in
   throughput.
 * The Fierce boefje got some fixes.
 * A number of bugs in the scheduler have been fixed.

Upgrading
=========

Django 4.2 requires that the trusted origins for CSRF protection is set. This
can be done using the `DJANGO_CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` variable. It is a good idea
to also set `DJANGO_ALLOWED_HOSTS` to the used hostnames, detailed instructions
are written in the :ref:`Hardening<Production: Hardening OpenKAT>` section.

If you configured system environment settings for boefjes or relied on existing
system variables being inherited by boefjes you need to explicitly set those
variables using either the boefje settings in the KAT-alogus or system
environment variables provided to the boefje process prepended with `BOEFJE_`.
See environment variables section of the :ref:`Boefjes` documentation for more
information.

The normal instructions for upgrading :ref:`Debian packages<Upgrading Debian>`
or upgrading :ref:`containers <Upgrading_Containers>` should be followed.

Full Changelog
==============

The full changelog can be found on `Github <https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/releases/tag/v1.10.0>`_.
