============
OpenKAT 1.13
============

This release introduces a preview of our new reporting functionality. It is not
finished yet and only available when you set the feature flag
``FEATURE_REPORTS`` to ``True`` in the rocky configuration. The new reporting is
based on HTML instead of LaTeX which should make it easier to implement new
reports and customize existing reports. Let us know if you have any feedback on
what we have already implemented.

A new container-native boefjes runner has been added. This allows running
boefjes as self-contained OCI images. These boefjes get their task input and
save their output using REST APIs. This is a big step towards making it possible
to run your own boefjes without having to add them to the OpenKAT source.

We are replacing the uWSGI server in rocky with Granian. uWSGI doesn't seem to
be well maintained anymore and we run into a bug that has existed for a long
time and doesn't get fixed. Granian is new application server that is better
maintained and also has good performance. Granian is also written in Rust
instead of C so should also have better security.

If you have made any configuration changes or are using rocky on port 8443 with
the Debian packages you need to make sure to configure Granian correctly.
Granian will only listen on 127.0.0.1 port 8000 by default and won't also listen
on 0.0.0.0 port 8443 like uWSGI. To not break anything in 1.13 we will support
using both uWSGI and Granian with uWSGI still being used when upgrading from
earlier versions. In 1.14 we will switch to using Granian and in 1.15 we will
remove uWSGI. In new installation the Debian packages will already use Granian
by default.

New Features
============

 * Findings can also be unmuted in bulk.
 * Detail pages for normalizers have been added to the KAT-alogus.
 * Boefje for checking CVE-2023-34039 (authentication bypass in Aria) has been
   added.
 * New CLI tools have been added that allow you to run a boefje, normalizer and
   bit from the CLI and show the raw file output of a boefje. See :ref:`Manually
   running a boefje or normalizer` and :ref:`Run bit manually`.
 * Filtering on the object list page has been improved.
 * Tabs have new a visual styling.
 * Descructive button styling has been added.
 * The risk level indicator also have new improved styling.
 * The color scheme used in OpenKAT has been updated.
 * New design of expanding rows.
 * OpenKAT has been translated to Italian.
 * The scheduler has more metrics available about task status.
 * The openkat-reset.sh script has been added to scripts directory that resets
   your whole installation and deletes all your data.

Bug fixes
=========

 * We no longer add missing DKIM/DMARC/SPF findings for hostnames that don't exist.
 * Enabling or disabling of normalizer has been fixed.
 * Tasks that are stalled will be set to failed instead of being dispatched forever.
 * Fixed issues in the error handling of requests to scheduler in rocky.
 * A bug where the scheduler used a wrong header in requests has been fixed.
 * The DATABASE_MIGRATION container environment variable is no longer case sensitive
 * We give proper error message if the API url of one of the other services are
   missing in rocky.

Upgrading
=========

The normal instructions for upgrading :ref:`Debian packages<Upgrading Debian>`
or upgrading :ref:`containers <Upgrading_Containers>` should be followed.

Containers
----------

If you are using the container images you can switch to granian by setting the
`USE_GRANIAN` env variable to `1` or `true`.

Debian packages
---------------

If you want to switch to Granian you can create the directory
``/etc/systemd/system/kat-rocky.service.d`` and creat the file
``/etc/systemd/system/kat-rocky.service.d/use-granian.conf`` with the following contents:

.. code-block:: systemd

    [Service]
    ExecStart=
    ExecStart=/opt/venvs/kat-rocky/bin/granian --interface wsgi rocky.wsgi:application
    Type=simple

This file is also used by the packagings scripts in new installations to have
those installations use Granian by default. Do not put any other configuration
in this file because it will be automatically removed when upgrading to 1.14.

If you were previously accessing OpenKAT using https on port 8443 you need to
change the configuration as described on the :ref:`Debian installation
page<Configure reverse proxy>`.


Full Changelog
==============

The full changelog can be found on `Github
<https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/releases/tag/v1.13.0>`_.
