============
OpenKAT 1.14
============

Our final release for 2023 introduces a whole slew of report types build using
our new reporting functionality. These specific (TLS, mail, basic security,
etc.) reports can be combined into aggregated reports for one or multiple assets
from a single organisation. Another great addition is the first steps into what
we would like to call Federated OpenKAT. You can export reports of any kind and
re-import these into another organisation for further processing, keeping in
line with out usual process each of these imported reports is timestamped and
stored in the bi-temporal storage paving the way to compliance over multiple
organisations, assets or vendors. We are looking forward to providing easier
user-interfaces and broader support for in future releases but we feel these
first steps are a good start. Let us know if you have any feedback on what we
have already implemented.

uWSGI has been replaced by Granian by default. See the :ref:`1.13 release notes
<OpenKAT 1.13>` release notes for more information. You can still switch back to uWSGI
in 1.14 if Granian does not work. uWSGI support will be removed in 1.15.

The pydantic version used by OpenKAT has been updated to version 2. Pydantic v2
has big improvements in performance which should also result in OpenKAT speed
improvements.

New Features
============

 * RPKI boefje has been added.
 * The boefjes definitions has correct raw types they produce and those are
   listed in the KAT-alogus.
 * The object links on task list include the valid time now.
 * Secrets are hidden on boefje detail pages.
 * Nmap boefje has been split in a TCP and UDP boefje
 * Statistics has been added to the boefje and normalizer task pages.
 * The secheduler got less verbose logging and also structured logging.
 * Clearance level inheritance has been moved the clearance level tab.
 * Task details has been added to the task history tables on plugin and object detail pages.

Bug fixes
=========

 * The wappalyzer boefje will yield redirect urls instead of wrong software instances.
 * HTML entities in the normalizer results are correctly escaped now.
 * The scheduler has got several fixes in threading, locking and other places.
 * Filtering objects with depth=1 for findings has been fixed.
 * Django admin correctly loads javascript now.

Upgrading
=========

The normal instructions for upgrading :ref:`Debian packages<Upgrading Debian>`
or upgrading :ref:`containers <Upgrading_Containers>` should be followed.

Debian packages
---------------

Because of the switch to Granian, we can't listen on both 8000 and 8443 anymore,
and we will default listen only on port 8000 on 127.0.0.1. If you were
previously accessing OpenKAT using https on port 8443 you need to change the
configuration as described on the :ref:`Debian installation page<Configure
reverse proxy>`.

Full Changelog
==============

The full changelog can be found on `Github
<https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/releases/tag/v1.14.0>`_.
