============================================
OpenKAT 1.20
============================================

In this release we have added deduplication of boefje tasks. This means that
when the same object is in multiple organizations, we only run the boefje once
and use the output in every organization. If you have users from multiple
organizations it might be possible that a user can conclude from the
deduplication that an object is also in another organization in the same
install. This might not be desirable, so this is by default disabled and can be
enabled by setting `BOEFJES_DEDUPLICATE`.

In 1.20 we finished the containerization of all boefjes. All boefjes are run
sandboxed as containers now.

Asset reports have been made optional and can be disabled by setting
`ASSET_REPORTS`. This is advised when you are creating reports on a large number
of objects.

New Features
============

* Report sections can be added to a dashboard.
* Organizations are ordered by name everywhere in the web interface.
* Added warnings when you don't have permissions to set a clearance level or an indemnification is missing.
* A number of design / style issues have been fixed / improved in the web interface.
* Performance of mute findings has been improved and the mute findings button moved to the top of the page.
* Number of calls from mula to octopoes have been optimized.
* More settings and env variables are hidden in debug mode to prevent logging of credentials
* Auth token can only be used to in the API tokens, not in the other views.
* The boefje containers can only talk to the boefje API in the developer docker-compose.yml or when using the updated docker-compose.release-example.yml, not to the other services.
* The question object has been changed to also show the current answer.
* The onboarding has been improved and simplified.


Bug fixes
=========

* Make it possible to use SSL with PostgreSQL without a client certificate.
* Fixed handling of a boefje task that fails.
* Fixed dnssec false positives with cnames.
* Fixed bug that report runner would lose the database connection and not reconnect.
* Fixed AttributeError in onboarding when WebURL could not be found.
* Several bugs in multi organization report have been fixed.
* Fixed observed_at in report links.
* Fixed filters on organization members page.


Upgrading
=========

The normal instructions for upgrading :ref:`Debian packages<Upgrading Debian>`
or upgrading :ref:`containers <Upgrading_Containers>` should be followed.

Boefje container images
-----------------------

The boefje container images of 1.19 are not compatible with 1.20. The simplest
way to use the latest boefje images is to delete them and let docker download
the latest version:

.. code-block:: sh

    docker image rm ghcr.io/minvws/openkat/dns-sec:latest ghcr.io/minvws/openkat/export-http:latest ghcr.io/minvws/openkat/nmap:latest


Full Changelog
==============

The full changelog can be found on `Github
<https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/releases/tag/v1.20.0>`_.
