===========
OpenKAT 1.7
===========

This is the first release from the new monorepo where all 7 different
repositories that we had before are merged into one repository that contains
everything. This means that contributions that have new OOIs, new boefjes, new
bits and new findings now need only one PR instead of several PRs in different
repos that need to be merged in the correct order. The way KAT is released and
deployed has not changed, we still provide container images and Debian packages
for each service.

There is also a new release of xtdb-http-multinode. The 1.0.4 version changes
the JVM options to make the JVM exit on an out of memory error instead of
continuing in a broken state. Upgrading to this version is recommended. The
Debian package can be found
`here <https://github.com/dekkers/xtdb-http-multinode/releases/tag/v1.0.4>`__
and the container image
`here <https://github.com/dekkers/xtdb-http-multinode/pkgs/container/xtdb-http-multinode/83293625?tag=v1.0.4>`__.

New Features
============

 * ADR validator boefje and normalizer to check Dutch API Design Rules.
 * Webpage capture boefje for taking screenshots of websites.
 * Normalizer for Burp Suite export.
 * The web interface has a new look and feel.
 * The workflow of enabling a boefje with required settings has been improved.
 * Filtering and sorting on KAT-alogus page has been improved.
 * Raw file upload page has been added.
 * Findings have been changed to be more informative to the end-user.
 * Added the option to bulk set the clearance level to "inherint" on the objects
   page.
 * Mula changed to using PostgreSQL everywhere and SQLite is no longer supported
   as database.

Upgrading
=========

In this release we stopped supporting SQLite as database because there were too
many problems to keep supporting it. If you were previously using SQLite you
need to switch your database to PostgreSQL.

Debian packages
---------------

The Debian package previously defaulted to using the in-memory SQLite for the
scheduler (mula). This needs to be changed to PostgreSQL. This will also fix
that previously with the in-memory SQLite all the tasks were gone if the
scheduler got restarted.

Creating a database for the scheduler needs to be done in the same as the other
databases were done during installation. First start with generating a random
password for PostgreSQL. Insert this password into the connection string for the
Mula DB in `/etc/kat/mula.conf`. For example:

.. code-block:: sh

    SCHEDULER_DB_DSN=postgresql://mula:<password>@localhost/mula_db

Create a new database and user for Mula:

.. code-block:: sh

    sudo -u postgres createdb mula_db
    sudo -u postgres createuser mula -P
    sudo -u postgres psql -c 'GRANT ALL ON DATABASE mula_db TO mula;'

Initialize the Mula database:

.. code-block:: sh

    sudo -u kat update-mula-db

Full Changelog
==============

The full changelog can be found on `Github <https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/releases/tag/v1.7.0>`_.
